Phonemes which are used in the *_rules and *_list files


Dictionary af_dict

&    &:   3:   @    @-   @L   @U   a    
A:   aI   AI   aU   A~   E    e:   e@   
eI   e~   I    i    iu   O    O:   o@   
OI   oI   o~   u    uI   W    y    Y@   
Yy   

-    :    ;    b    c    d    dZ   f    
g    h    j    k    l    m    n    N    
p    r    s    S    t    tS   v    w    
x    x2   z    Z    


Dictionary cs_dict

@-   a    a:   aU   e    e:   eI   eU   
i    i:   l-   o    o:   oU   r-   u    
u:   

*    b    c    d    dZ   f    g    h    
j    J    k    l    l^   m    n    N    
n^   p    r    R    R^   R^/  s    S    
t    tS   ts   v    x    z    Z    


Dictionary cy_dict

@    @-   @I   @Y   a    A:   aI   aU   
AY   aY   E    e:   eU   I    i:   Iu   
O    o:   OI   OY   U    u:   uY   V    
Y    y:   Yu   

:    b    C    d    D    dZ   f    g    
h    j    k    l    L    m    n    N    
p    r    s    S    t    T    v    w    
x    z    


Dictionary de_dict

3    @    @-   a    A    A:   aI   aU   
E    E2   E:   e:   I    i:   O    o:   
OI   U    u:   W    y    y:   Y:   

*    :    ;    b    C    C2   d    D    
dZ   f    g    h    j    k    l    m    
n    N    p    pF   r    s    S    t    
tS   ts   v    x    z    Z    


Dictionary el_dict

@    @-   a    aI   e    i    o    oI   
u    

*    ;    b    c    C    d    D    f    
g    j    k    l    l^   m    n    N    
n^   p    Q    r    R    s    s;   t    
T    ts   v    x    z    z;   


Dictionary en_dict

0    3    3:   @    @-   @2   @5   @L   
a    a2   A:   A@   aa   aI   aI@  aU   
aU@  E    e@   eI   I    I2   i:   i@   
IR   O    O:   o:   O@   o@   OI   oU   
O~   U    u:   U@   V    VR   

:    ;    b    C    d    D    dZ   f    
g    g-   h    j    k    l    L    m    
n    N    p    Q    r    r-   s    S    
t    T    t2   tS   v    w    x    z    
Z    


Dictionary eo_dict

@-   a    aI   aU   e    eI   eU   i    
o    OI   u    uI   

*    b    d    dZ   f    g    h    j    
k    l    m    n    p    r    R    s    
S    t    T    tS   ts   v    w    x    
z    Z    


Dictionary es_dict

@-   a    aI   e    E    eI   eU   i    
o    oI   u    

*    b    B    d    D    f    g    j    
k    l    l^   m    n    n^   p    Q    
r    R    s    t    T    tS   v    w    
x    


Dictionary fi_dict

&    &i   &y   @-   a    ai   au   e    
ei   eu   ey   i    ie   iu   iy   o    
oi   ou   u    ui   uo   Y    y    Yi   
yi   Yy   yY   

*    :    b    d    f    g    h    j    
k    l    m    n    N    p    r    s    
S    s2   t    v    Z    


Dictionary fr_dict

@    @-   a    A    A~   e    E    E~   
i    o    O    O~   u    W    w^i  W~   
y    Y    y"   

(i)  :    ;    b    c    d    dZ   f    
g    h    j    k    l    L    l/   m    
n    N    n^   p    r    R    s    S    
t    t2   tS   v    w    z    Z    z2   


Dictionary hi_dict

@    @-   @2   @3   a    a:   aI   aU   
e    E    e:   E:   E~   i    I    i:   
l-   o    O    o:   O:   o~   O~   r-   
U    u:   V    

-    :    b    c    ch   d    d.   f    
g    h    H    j    J    k    kh   l    
m    n    N    n.   n^   p    ph   Q    
q    r    s    S    s.   t    T    t.   
t.h  th   v    w    x    z    


Dictionary hr_dict

&    @    @-   @2   a    A    a:   aI   
aU   E    e    e:   E~   i    I    i:   
l-   o    o:   oU   r-   u    U    u:   
y    

*    b    d    dZ   dZ;  f    g    h    
j    k    l    l^   m    n    N    n^   
p    r    R    s    S    t    tS   ts   
tS;  v    x    z    Z    


Dictionary hu_dict

A    a:   E    e    e:   i    i:   o    
o:   u    u:   y    Y    y:   Y:   

*    :    b    c    C    d    dZ   f    
g    h    j    J    k    l    m    n    
N    n^   p    R    s    S    s2   t    
tS   ts   v    z    Z    z2   


Dictionary it_dict

@-   a    a/   aI   aU   e    E    i    
o    O    oI   u    

*    :    b    d    dZ   f    g    j    
k    l    l^   m    n    N    n^   p    
r    R    s    S    t    tS   ts   v    
w    w2   z    


Dictionary nl_dict

8    @    @-   A    a:   E    e:   EI   
eU   i    I    O    o:   u    VU   Wy   
y    Y:   yU   

*    :    ;    b    C    d    f    g    
h    j    k    l    m    n    N    n^   
p    Q    r    s    S    s;   t    tS   
v    v2   w    x    z    


Dictionary no_dict

@    @-   @2   a    A    a:   A:   AI   
aI   aU   E    E:   e:   I    i:   O    
o:   OI   U    u-   u-:  u-I  u:   W    
y    y:   Y:   Yy   

*    :    ;    b    d    f    g    h    
j    k    l    m    n    N    p    r    
R    s    S    s;   t    v    w    x    
z    


Dictionary pl_dict

@-   a    E    E~   i    O    O~   u    
y    

*    ;    b    c    C    d    d;   dZ   
dz;  f    g    h    j    k    l    m    
n    N    n^   p    r    s    S    S;   
t    t;   tS   ts   ts;  v    w    x    
z    Z    Z;   


Dictionary ru_dict

8    @-   A    a    E    e    E#   E2   
E3   i    I    I#   I2   I3   ja   ju   
o    O    u    u"   u#   V    V#   y    
Y    

*    ;    b    d    d;   dZ;  f    g    
j    k    l    l^   m    n    n^   p    
r    s    S    s;   S;   t    t;   ts   
ts;  tS;  v    x    z    Z    z;   Z;   


Dictionary sk_dict

&    @-   a    a:   e    e:   i    i:   
l-   l:   o    o:   oU   r-   r:   u    
u:   

*    b    c    d    d;   dZ   f    g    
h    j    k    l    l^   m    n    N    
n^   p    r    R    R^   R^/  s    S    
t    t;   tS   ts   v    w    x    z    
Z    


Dictionary sv_dict

8    @    a    a2   A:   E    e:   E:   
I    i:   O    o:   U    u-   u:   W    
y    y:   Y:   

:    ;    b    d    f    g    h    j    
k    l    m    n    N    p    r    s    
S    s.   S;   sx   t    v    w    z    


Dictionary sw_dict

@-   a    a/   e    i    m-   n-   N-   
o    u    

*    :    b    d    D    f    g    h    
j    J    k    l    m    n    N    n^   
p    Q    r    s    S    t    T    tS   
v    w    x    z    


Dictionary vi_dict

@    @:   @:I  @:U  @I   @U   a    a:   
a:I  a:U  aI   aU   E    e    eU   EU   
i    i@   iU   O    o    OI   oI   u    
u@   uI   y    y@   yI   

b    c    d    D    f    g    h    j    
k    kh   l    m    n    N    n^   p    
Q    s    t    t[   ts;  tS;  v    w    
x    z    Z    z;   


Dictionary zhy_dict

a    aa   aai  aan  aau  ai   au   e    
ei   eo   eoi  eu   i    iu   o    oe   
oi   ong  ou   u    ui   yu   

b    c    d    f    g    h    j    k    
l    m    n    N    p    r    s    t    
tS   v    w    z    


Dictionary pt_dict

&    &/   &U~  &~   @    @-   a    A    
aI   aU   e    E    eI   EI   eU   EU   
i    i/   iU   i~   o    O    oI   OI   
o~   u    U    uI   u~   y    

*    :    ;    b    C    d    dZ   f    
g    h    j    k    l    l^   m    n    
N    n^   p    Q    r    R    r-   s    
S    s#   s;   t    T    tS   ts   v    
w    x    z    Z    


Dictionary ro_dict

@    @-   @I   @U   a    aI   aU   e    
ea   eI   eo   eU   i    i/   I^   iI   
iU   o    O    Oa   oI   oU   u    uI   
y    Y    yI   yU   

*    *;   b    b;   c    C    d    d;   
dZ   f    f;   g    h    j    k    l    
l;   m    m;   n    N    n;   p    p;   
r    s    S    s;   S;   t    t;   tS   
ts   ts;  v    v;   w    z    Z    z;   
Z;   


Dictionary is_dict

&    @-   a    aI   aU   e    E    eI   
i    I    o    O    oU   oU2  u    W    
y    y#   Yy   

*    :    ;    b    c    C    d    D    
f    g    h    j    J    k    l    l#   
m    m#   n    N    n#   N#   n^   n^#  
p    Q    r    R    r#   R2   s    S    
t    T    tl#  v    x    z    


Dictionary la_dict

@-   a    a:   aI   aU   E    e:   EU   
I    i:   O    o:   OI   U    u:   y    
y:   

*    :    <h>  b    d    f    g    h    
j    k    l    m    n    N    p    r    
R    s    t    w    z    


Dictionary sr_dict

&    @    @-   @2   a    A    a:   aI   
aU   E    e    e:   E~   i    I    i:   
l-   o    o:   oU   r-   u    U    u:   
y    

*    b    d    dZ   dZ;  f    g    h    
j    k    l    l^   m    n    N    n^   
p    r    R    s    S    t    tS   ts   
tS;  v    x    z    Z    
