
//====================================================
//  Hindi 
//====================================================

phoneme : //  Lengthen the previous vowel by "length"
  virtual
  length 100
endphoneme

phoneme @
  vowel  starttype (@)  endtype (@)
  length 130
  formants vowel/@_bck
  before H vowel/@_low
  reduceto  @- 0
endphoneme

phoneme @/
  vowel  starttype (@)  endtype (@)
  length 130
  formants vowel/@_bck
endphoneme

phoneme V
  vowel  starttype (@)  endtype (@)
  length 130
  formants vowel/V_3
  before H vowel/@_low
  reduceto  @  4
endphoneme

phoneme @2
  vowel  starttype (@)  endtype (@)
  length 130
  formants vowel/@_low
endphoneme

phoneme @3
  vowel  starttype (@)  endtype (@)
  length 130
  formants vowel/@_3
  reduceto  @- 0
endphoneme

phoneme @4
  vowel  starttype (@)  endtype (@)
  length 130
  formants vowel/@
endphoneme




phoneme i:
  vowel long starttype (i) endtype (i)
  length 230
  formants vowel/i_fnt
  linkout ;
endphoneme

phoneme i         // as [i:] but not marked as 'long'
  vowel starttype (i) endtype (i)
  length 230
  formants vowel/i_6
  linkout ;
endphoneme

phoneme I
  vowel starttype (i) endtype (i)
  length 100
  formants vowel/ii_3
  linkout ;
endphoneme

phoneme e:
  vowel long starttype (e) endtype (e)
  length 220
  formants vowel/e_2
endphoneme

phoneme e
  vowel starttype (e) endtype (e)
  length 130
  formants vowel/e_2
endphoneme

phoneme E:
  vowel long starttype (e) endtype (e)
  length 220
  formants vdiph/ee-e
endphoneme

phoneme E
  vowel starttype (e) endtype (e)
  length 130
  formants vowel/e_mid
endphoneme

phoneme &:
  vowel long starttype (a) endtype (a)
  length 220
  formants vowel/&
endphoneme


phoneme a:
  vowel long starttype (a) endtype (a)
  length 230
  formants vowel/aa_9
endphoneme

phoneme a
  vowel long starttype (a) endtype (a)
  length 130
  formants vowel/a#_3
endphoneme


phoneme o:
  vowel long starttype (o) endtype (o)
  length 220
  formants vowel/o_2
endphoneme

phoneme o
  vowel starttype (o) endtype (o)
  length 130
  formants vowel/o
endphoneme

phoneme O:
  vowel long starttype (o) endtype (o)
  length 210
  formants vowel/oo_4
endphoneme


phoneme O
  vowel starttype (o) endtype (o)
  length 130
  formants vowel/0
endphoneme


phoneme U
  vowel starttype (u) endtype (u)
  length 120
  formants vowel/uu_bck
endphoneme


phoneme u:
  vowel long starttype (u) endtype (u)
  length 230
  formants vowel/u_bck
endphoneme


// Nasal vowels
//=============

phoneme i~
  vowel long starttype (i) endtype (i)
  length 220
  formants vnasal/i_n2
endphoneme

phoneme I~
  vowel starttype (i) endtype (i)
  length 170
  formants vnasal/i_n2
endphoneme

phoneme e~
  vowel long starttype (e) endtype (e)
  length 220
  formants vnasal/e_n
endphoneme

phoneme E~ 
  vowel long starttype (e)  endtype (e)
  length 230
  formants vnasal/ee_n2
endphoneme

phoneme a~
  vowel long starttype (a) endtype (a)
  length 250
  formants vnasal/aa_n
endphoneme

phoneme V~
  vowel long starttype (@) endtype (@)
  length 250
  formants vnasal/V_n
endphoneme

phoneme O~
  vowel long starttype (o) endtype (o)
  length 230
  formants vnasal/oo_n2
endphoneme

phoneme o~
  vowel long starttype (o) endtype (o)
  length 220
  formants vnasal/o_n
endphoneme

phoneme u~
  vowel long starttype (u) endtype (u)
  length 230
  formants vnasal/u_n
endphoneme

phoneme U~
  vowel starttype (u) endtype (u)
  length 170
  formants vnasal/u_n
endphoneme


phoneme r-
  vowel  starttype (@)  endtype (@)
  unstressed
  length 220
  formants vowelr/r-voc
endphoneme

phoneme l-
  vowel  starttype (@)  endtype (@)
  unstressed
  length 200
  formants vwl_hi/l-voc
endphoneme



// Diphthongs
//===========


phoneme aI
  vowel long starttype (@) endtype (i)
  length 240
  long
  formants vdiph/&i
endphoneme

phoneme aU
  vowel long starttype (a) endtype (u)
  length 240
  long
  formants vdiph/aau_3
endphoneme



// CONSONANTS
//===========

phoneme l.
  liquid rfx
  lengthmod 7
  formants l^/l_rfx
endphoneme




phoneme v       // approximant
  vcd lbd frc
  vowelin  f1=1  f2=900 -300 -300  f3=-100 100
  vowelout f1=1  f2=900 -500 -300  f3=-100 60  len=50
  lengthmod 6
  formants voc/v#
  before _ voc/v#_
  switchvoicing f
endphoneme



phoneme h        // use with voiced aspirated conants [bh] [dh] etc
  vls glt apr
  length 100
  lengthmod 3
  wave h/h_%70         // no vowel following
  before (@) h/h@+35
  before (a) h/ha+35
  before (e) h/he+35
  before (i) h/hi+35
  before (o) h/ho+35
  before (u) h/hu+35
endphoneme

phoneme H       // use for full "h"
  vls glt apr
  length 100
  lengthmod 3
  wave h/h_%70         // no vowel following
  before (@) h/h@
  before (a) h/ha
  before (e) h/he
  before (i) h/hi
  before (o) h/ho
  before (u) h/hu
endphoneme



// bilabial plosives
//==================

phoneme p
  vls blb stop
  vowelin  f1=1  f2=1000 -50 -100  f3=-200 80
  vowelout f1=1  f2=1000 -500 -350  f3=-300 80 rms=30
  lengthmod 2
  wave ustop/p_unasp
  before _ ustop/p_unasp_%80
  before r ustop/pr
  before l ustop/pl
  switchvoicing b
endphoneme


phoneme ph
  vls blb stop
  vowelin  f1=0  f2=1000 -50 -100  f3=-200 80
  vowelout f1=0  f2=1000 -500 -350  f3=-300 80 rms=30
  lengthmod 2
  wave ustop/p_asp
  before _ ustop/p_
  before r ustop/pr
  before l ustop/pl
  switchvoicing b
endphoneme


phoneme  b       // this is [b]
  vcd blb stop
  vowelout f1=1  f2=1000 -500 -300  f3=-300 80 brk
  formants b/b+x/b
  before _ b/b_+x/b
  before (a) b/ba+x/b
  before (@) b/b@+x/b
  before (e) b/be+x/b
  before (i) b/bi+x/b
  before (o) b/bo+x/b
  before (u) b/bu+x/b
  before @-  b/b@2+x/b
  after _ NULL
  after @ b/xb
  lengthmod 5
  switchvoicing p
endphoneme


phoneme bh
  vcd blb stop
  vowelin  f1=0  f2=1000 -50 -100  f3=-200 80
  vowelout f1=0  f2=1000 -500 -350  f3=-300 80 rms=30
  lengthmod 5
  formants  b/xb+ustop/p_asp%70
  after @ b/xb
  switchvoicing ph
endphoneme




// dental plosives
//==================

phoneme t        // dental variant of /t/
  vls dnt stop
  vowelin f1=1  f2=1500 -250 250  f3=-100 80  amp=16
  vowelout f1=0 f2=1500 -300 250  f3=-100 80  rms=20
  lengthmod 2
  wave  ustop/t_hi%60
  before _ ustop/t_dnt%35 
  switchvoicing d
endphoneme



phoneme th        // dental variant of /t/
  vls dnt stop
  vowelin f1=0  f2=1500 -300 300  f3=-100 80  amp=16
  vowelout f1=0 f2=1500 -300 250  f3=-100 80  rms=20
  lengthmod 2
  wave  ustop/t_dnt%50
  before _ ustop/t_dnt%35
  switchvoicing d
endphoneme



phoneme d       // dental variant of /d/
  vcd dnt stop
  vowelin f1=2  f2=1500 -300 300  f3=-150 80
  vowelout f1=2 f2=1500 -300 300  f3=-150 80
  formants d/d+x/d_dnt%110
  before _ d/d_+x/d_
  before r d/dr+x/d_dnt%110
  after _ NULL
  after @ d/xd
  lengthmod 5
  switchvoicing t
endphoneme


phoneme dh
  vcd dnt stop
  vowelin f1=0  f2=1500 -300 300  f3=-100 80
  vowelout f1=0 f2=1500 -300 250  f3=-100 80  rms=20
  lengthmod 5
  formants  d/xd3+ustop/t_dnt%40
  after @ d/xd
  switchvoicing th
endphoneme




// retroflex plosives
//===================

phoneme t.
  vls rfx stop
  vowelin f1=0  f2=1800 -300 300  f3=-400 80
  vowelout f1=0 f2=1800 -300 250  f3=-400 80  rms=20 colr=2
  lengthmod 2
  wave  ustop/t_short
  before _ ustop/t_
  switchvoicing d.
endphoneme

phoneme th.
  vls rfx stop
  vowelin f1=0  f2=1800 -300 300  f3=-400 80
  vowelout f1=0 f2=1800 -300 250  f3=-400 80  rms=20 colr=2
  lengthmod 2
  wave  ustop/t
//  wave  ustop/th_rfx
  switchvoicing dh.
endphoneme

phoneme d.
  vcd rfx stop
  vowelin f1=1  f2=1800 -300 300  f3=-400 80
  vowelout f1=1 f2=1800 -300 300  f3=-400 80 colr=2
  formants d/d+x/d
  before _ d/d_+x/d_
  before r d/dr+x/d
  after _ NULL
  after @ d/xd
  lengthmod 5
  switchvoicing t.
endphoneme

phoneme dh.
  vcd rfx stop
  vowelin f1=1  f2=1800 -300 300  f3=-400 80
  vowelout f1=1 f2=1800 -300 300  f3=-400 80 colr=2
  formants d/xd+x/d+ustop/t
//  formants d/xd+x/d+ustop/th_rfx
  after @ d/xd
  lengthmod 5
  switchvoicing th.
endphoneme




// palatal plosives
//=================

// also try [tS] and [dZ]

phoneme c    // this is [ts;]
  vls pal afr sibilant
  vowelin f1=0  f2=2700 400 600  f3=300 80 rate len=70
  vowelout f1=0 f2=2700 400 600  f3=300 80 colr=1
  lengthmod 2
  wave ustop/ts_pzd2%90
  before _ ustop/ts_pzd_
  switchvoicing J
endphoneme


phoneme ch    // this is [ts;] 
  vls pal afr sibilant
  vowelin f1=0  f2=2700 400 600  f3=300 80 rate len=70
  vowelout f1=0 f2=2700 400 600  f3=300 80 colr=1
  lengthmod 2
  wave ustop/ts_pzd
  before _ ustop/ts_pzd
  switchvoicing J
endphoneme


phoneme J   // this is [dz;]
  vcd pla afr sibilant
  vowelin f1=1  f2=2700 400 600  f3=300 80 rate len=70
  vowelout f1=2 f2=2700 400 600  f3=300 80 colr=1
  formants dzh/dzh+x/dz_pzd
  before _ dzh/dzh_+x/dzh_
  after _ NULL  @ dzh/xdzh
  lengthmod 5
  switchvoicing c
endphoneme


phoneme Jh
  vcd pal afr sibilant
  vowelin f1=0  f2=2700 400 600  f3=300 80 rate len=70
  vowelout f1=0 f2=2700 400 600  f3=300 80 colr=1
  lengthmod 5
  formants  dzh/xdz_pzd+ustop/ts_pzd
  after @ dzh/xdz_pzd
  switchvoicing ch
endphoneme





// velar plosives
//==================


phoneme k
  vls vel stop
  vowelin f1=0  f2=2300 200 300  f3=-150 80
  vowelout f1=0 f2=2300 300 400  f3=-150 80  rms=20
  lengthmod 2
  wave ustop/k_unasp%60   // weaker
  before _ ustop/k_unasp%50
  switchvoicing g
endphoneme

phoneme kh
  vls vel stop
  vowelin f1=0  f2=2300 200 300  f3=-150 80
  vowelout f1=0 f2=2300 300 400  f3=-150 80  rms=20
  lengthmod 2
  wave ustop/k_asp%90
  before _ ustop/k_asp%50
  before r ustop/kr
  before l ustop/kl
  switchvoicing g
endphoneme


phoneme g
  vcd vel stop
  vowelin f1=1  f2=2300 200 300  f3=-300 80
  vowelout f1=1  f2=2300 250 300  f3=-300 80 brk
  formants g/g+x/g2
  before _ g/g_+x/g2_
  after _ NULL
  after @ g2/xg
  lengthmod 5
endphoneme


phoneme gh
  vcd dnt stop
  vowelin f1=1  f2=2300 200 300  f3=-150 80  rms=20
  vowelout f1=0 f2=2300 300 400  f3=-150 80  rms=20
  lengthmod 5
  formants  g2/xg+ustop/k_asp%70
  after @ g2/xg
  switchvoicing kh
endphoneme



